Beautiful, okay, so
I have my remote git setup.
But now we got this call,
production's down, there is a change
you need to make or there's a change
you need to pull in from our upstream.
So we're going to attempt to pull
it in with an act of change.
So let's start there.
So do a git pull right here, git pull.
Wait a second, did I miss one thing?
Did I not put it in?
It's supposed to say, hey, hold on now.
It's supposed to say, hold on,
you're not allowed to do that.
Because you have unchanged things.
I'm super confused why I'm not getting the
error that I was hoping to get right here.
So it should say, hey, you don't do that.
I think it's probably because
I had rebase automatically on.
So I think I actually had my little
change in where I had rebase through.
So it's causing a bit of,
you cannot pull with rebase.
So oopsie daisies, right?
So since I have an active change,
it's not letting me do those changes.
So whenever you try to pull and
you have active changes,
it's gonna tell you you can't do this.
So we need to be able to stash,
so we'll just go like this.
We'll do a another one of those
echo upstream change into here,
git add this, git commit,
upstream change, there we go.
We have the upstream change in hello.
Now, we go to the remote and we can go,
echo downstream change into the readme.
So now we have something in the readme and
we have a change we
need to get from hello.
So what are we going to do now?
We are gonna use stash, right?
So this is what you do at this point.
You'd wanna stash any of your changes
to prevent any errors from happening.
And then you're gonna want to
be able to get the changes and
then you're gonna wanna be
able to unstash, right?
So this is typically what
you're gonna want to do.
So right now, before we do anything,
let's stash our changes.
So you can experiment by going git stash,
and then go git status.
Your changes are gone, right?
Don't pull yet, don't pull.
You can view your stash list.
This is a good kind of activity to get
into viewing your stash list because it's
really nice to know that
you can even do that.
So again, git stash lists, so
if you ever get into this, you will know.
So we have this work in progress
that we've stored right here at this
point in time.
You can see, okay, it was at this commit.
Not very informative though, right?
When you look at this, you don't really
know what your stash changes are or
anything.
So we can go git stash show,
little bit nicer to see, okay,
this is the one where I
made a change to readme.
So a little bit nicer,
let's pop our stashes this time,
and we pop it I wanna see
that is now made that change.
Git stash pop, there we go.
Our changes back is right here, all right.
Now let's stash our changes again but
this time, let's use a custom message.
So go git stash with a message or
readme changes.
There we go, we did a stash again, but
this time with a custom message, so
now do git stash list.
Now look at that, isn't that a lot nicer
to do when you have a nice message?
The reality is sometimes you
will have a couple stashes and
you're not gonna remember
what's in the stashes.
And so just having a nice little friendly
message to yourself can just, it'll just
save a lot of headaches rather than trying
to go through get all the diffs and
looking at each different one, and
then realizing, gosh, like this,
there's the one I'm looking for.
So now, let's create another change and
we'll stash that so
we have two in the list, all right?
So let's go another one.
I'll just go vim readme, and
I don't know, just add another line.
There we go, Dvorak, by the way.
And then I'll go git stash another change.
So now when I go git stash list,
I'll actually see two changes.
I have another change on top,
and the readme changes on bottom.
So the readme changes is
the first set of changes we did.
Another change is Is the second set of
changes we did, but notice it's on top,
it's the first one.
So let's pull in our upstream changes now.
So I'm gonna go git pull, there we go.
I have this beautiful upstream change.
Now, let's get our original change
back the first stash we did,
does anyone remember how you're
gonna get the first stash out?
Not the second, not the one we just added,
but the first one.
>> Pass the index.
>> Pass the index, there you go.
So what you should be
doing is going git stash.
Well first,
you can go git stash list, make sure,
okay I need to pull out the first one
right here and go git stash pop index 1,
and now we have that proper change.
We If we don't have the Dvorak one,
right, we have the downstream change.
So working with stash pretty easy to use.
Now we have this beautiful change on top,
awesome.
And if we want to, we can even commit it
if we want to, but stage has not changed,
there we go.
And it looks like even
in here I committed so
we will commit it with the exact same
beautiful message that I have right here.
Let's see that's,
copying from terminal, git add.
Greatest change, fantastic, there we go.
So commit that into your code.
That means your readme should
approximately look like that.
I have a little space in here.
There's no space in my example one.
It's because my first
commit contained that.
It's that one right there.
See, look at that.
I added a space, but in all my examples I
didn't have the space, very painful for
me to see this,
I can't believe I did that.
By the way, if you don't know,
I don't cover it in this course,
but- S will search like your commit
message or search the commit change so
you can look for changes that way,
very, very fantastic.
So I knew where to find it,
that's how I found it right away.
Pretty neat stuff,
just in case you're wondering.
All right, so work trees.
We're gonna talk about this in
a little bit, I believe, I'm not sure.
Yeah, we're not talking
about it right now, but
we're gonna talk about it in a little bit.
The thing that makes worktree so
cool is that a worktree is
another copy of your repo without
all the weight of a repo.
So if it takes you five minutes
to download to clone out a repo,
you can build a worktree effectively
just as fast as you can build a branch.
They're very, very lightweight and
they're fantastic.
So you can see why that could be
a very nice alternative to stash.
All right, so
we're gonna do more rebasing.
This will be the longest section here and
it's gonna have all the conflicts and
everything and we're gonna go over it.
It's gonna take a little bit.
So anyways, rebasing, you can do things
like this, where we start off here, right?
E is branching off of A,
this picture makes it looks
like it's branching off of B.
I'm not sure which one I chose to
have it actually branch off of,
it doesn't really matter.
It branches off in the days
of history way back then.
And if you do a rebase, you can make it so
that it goes all the way to the front,
right?
We all remember this,
what are the steps that happen?
Step one,
we check out the branch we're rebasing on.
Step two,
we play our commits one at a time at
the tip of the branch we are rebasing on.
Three, we update the branch we were on
with the new position and the new commit.
That's why it alters histories,
because remember, it's actually
creating a new set of commits because
remember a commit also contains time.
So that's why you get new
commits when you rebase.
Everyone's good?
Everyone's good on that one?
Awesome, all right, so first,
let's do a little bit of
interactive rebasing and squashing.
So this part is where you'll do this
pretty much on your own branches,
never on the public one.
Interactive rebasing and
squashing allows you to take, say,
this branch right here and
turn it into this,
where it's a singular commit
as opposed to three commits.
So that means while you're working,
you can make all the commits you want,
every single checkpoint.
And then when you're done,
you can take all those commits and
turn it into one commit yourself.
Now, a lot of people do it
where they have the remote,
like say GitHub will do
an automatic squash merge for you.
It'll first take all of your commits,
squash it into one and
then merge it onto GitHub.
That's a pretty common
strategy that I've seen.
I know we do it with Stash and
stuff like that, and Netflix.
So I think most people probably
have some very similar experience.
And when you do interactive rebasing,
it also allows you to edit the message so
that way, what I typically do is
I'll do each one of my commits and
I'll start with squash me.
So I can just look in the history and
go okay, where did I start?
Okay, I started right here,
rebase from right there.
And then it's very easy and interactive
and I can just erase all the messages and
give it a nice, proper message as
opposed to a bunch of squash me, right?
And so we're gonna create a, we're gonna
create some situations where we can
interactively squash our commits and
get some good messaging.
There's a lot of ground to cover here.
We're gonna go over conflicts cuz
conflicts are very important part of this.
If for whatever reason I've
done steps out of order, and
we're unable to create the conflict as
easily, we might have to add some extra
commits because that's part of the fun, is
that we didn't do it right the first try.
So be very careful where we make
changes because from here on out,
we're gonna be trying to make conflicts
and we all want to be on the same page.
So the first, it is, by the way, conflicts
are the most dreaded topic, I hate them.
I don't know why I have an unreasonable,
I have an unreasonable amount of anxiety
every time I pull a gun, man,
there's gonna be a conflict.
And even though I know there's not,
I still just feel like I'm
gonna have a freak out.
I don't know why it is.
It just, it's that experience.
Yeah, I hate them, you hate them, but
it's good to know how to resolve them.
Please, by the way, don't use VS Code.
Don't use fugitive with git or with vim.
Don't use any of those for this.
Let's just manually edit the diffs.
You want to see why they're doing this.
It's gonna be very important,
especially with your knowledge of rebase,
why conflicts can be goofy
with rebase versus merge.
We're gonna go through it all, but
if you're not using the hand edit,
you're just using a program,
you may miss some of these subtle changes.